9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong, you're watching the
China Show. I'm Yvon Man with David and
Glass.
>> Good morning. We are counting down to
the reopen of mainland markets after the
Lunar New Year holiday. Let's get to
your top stories today. Stocks across
the Asia-Pacific are under somewhat of
modest pressure. Uh this is really fresh
anxiety, particularly in the US, uh over
AI's impact on companies combined with
tariff uncertainty.
>> Yep. a bearish report on potential AI
scenarios hitting shares of delivery,
payments, and software companies. We
speak to its co-author, Lotus CIO Alab
Sha.
>> Now, onore Chinese stocks may buck the
trends at the reopen today though on
optimism about lower US tariffs and also
homegrown technologies.
>> And the US said to be preparing national
security investigations that would
enable President Trump to impose new
levies after last week's Supreme Court
ruling.
Good morning. Welcome to the China Show.
We're starting things off today with
some breaking news. No change in the
loan prime rates for Feb. That's both in
the one and also the five-year, which
also means we're back to business.
Business is open again on mainland
China, which also means markets are
reopening today. Everything from equity
markets, the bond markets, and
commodities. But yes, first one out of
the gates uh unchanged there. We're
looking at a little bit of weakness now
coming through in the Chinese currency.
That should be coming up on your
screens. We're now at 689
uh there against the US dollar. We're
coming from about 688. So, we were
flirting with the stronger end of
things, but yes, uh lots to talk about.
There we It looks like it could be a
catch-up story for Asia markets, right?
You take a look at what we saw in Hong
Kong. Certainly, uh the the positive
backdrop that we saw regarding tariffs,
right? The Supreme Court decision to
deem these AIPA tariffs essentially
illegal uh does benefit China in some
ways. Morgan Stanley saying those
effective tariff rates have now been
lowered to basically 24%. For China. So,
uh we saw that really that rebound uh
sparked by a lot of that optimism around
the trade situation. And then you add
the sort of AI pure plays that we've
been seeing in China that have really
been largely insulated from this whole
scare trade uh over on Wall Street. And
you know this catrini report that we got
certainly was one of the first sort of
triggers over the weekend that sent
things into a bit of a stale spin here.
And it's it's coming on the back end of
successive days on Wall Street of sector
after sector after sector that this AI
scare trade and then you have
>> almost piece of fiction
>> piece of almost like a very good fiction
story at the end uh that really
extrapolates not too long from now right
about two years from now that really
tells a story of how this might actually
play out as far as the real economy is
concerned. So we'll dig into that.
Obviously there's certainly a massive
market angle to that to mention of
course when you look at the AI trade in
China which is almost operating as a
separate system. Uh so the code
relations there are not as close as you
get in the US but yes obviously going to
the reopen today is going to be
something
>> and it wasn't just therini report right
that came out on Sunday then on Monday
you had that warning from anthropic
saying you know some of their this new
cloud claude
>> claude
>> yeah was able to you know replace some
of the the sort of coding that was in
IBM computers right so that sent IBM so
lower the worst plunge we've seen in 25
years uh for that company as well and
then you add what we heard from the
author of the black swan as Tala just to
add more fuel to the fire warning
investors to brace for more volatility
as the AI rally enters a more fragile
phase historically if you look at
history the car companies airline
companies um and and of course the
personal computer okay if you look
historically that those who started the
business the pioneers are not
necessarily the winners as a matter of
fact probably more likely to be the
losers. So now people take names of AI
and say okay these are going to win.
Let's invest. I'm sure someone's gonna
make a lot of money in uh both software
and hardware related to AI, but doesn't
necessarily have to be these companies
because you have a lot of instability
both technologically and of course in in
geographically with with AI.
>> You know, markets in the Asia Pacific,
as we perhaps just alluded to a few
seconds ago, are taking this one in
stride. It's strided relatively, of
course, to the deep selloff that we had
across some big names in the US, right?
So, Asia-Pacific on your screens. You
have, of course, a couple of markets
coming back online today. You have Japan
coming off of course a holiday. Mainland
China coming on coming off a very long
one. Uh so, we're calling it flat right
now on the regional benchmark. Japan is
doing some bit of a lift. Uh I imagine
Taiwan coming online and it's up again
five straight days. there and softback
of course is the separate related story
to the AI play is also pulling uh at
least removing some of the points gains
in the NIK at least for today. Uh Cosby
is about flat finally no gains there. Uh
dollar is actually stronger from 24
hours ago. Dollar Japan is coming up on
your screens. We showed you dollar China
back to 689. So interesting what the fix
is going to be the first one in a while
and of course that spread between
offshore and onshore. It's also worth
pointing out that the stock connect
resumes today. Okay. So, you're going to
get that volume coming through here uh
into Hong Kong across South Assuming
Assuming of course we get some buying uh
gold and uh Brent on your screens. Uh
not much change there. 850 futures
coming up both contracts. The 10-year
Chinese government bond yield. You have
bond auctions today. Just keep that in
mind. And of course, Dollar China, there
we go at 689 against the US. are poised
to open slightly to the downside because
of some of the uh tailwinds coming
through um overnight.
>> Yep. And really the report that may have
been the catalyst of of what we saw
overnight really started with a really
key question, right? What if all this is
too good to be true that maybe it turns
bearish, right? What if our AI
bullishness continues to be right and
what if it's actually bearish? uh here
to tell us what more joining us now from
New York is the person who posed that
question Alab Sha CIO of Lotus who
co-authored this report was Sutrini Alab
thank you so much for joining us uh it's
interesting it seems like you had a lot
of fun
>> with with this whole sort of report that
you know really played out something
that you know you're the timeline of
which is 2028
so we're talking only about two years
time the disruptions that we could be
seeing from AI you know tell us a bit
more about that timeline here and and
What's the probability that this could
actually come into fruition?
>> The timeline we we're seeking to just
find a time period that is far enough
away that ultimately we can start try
start driving a conversation on what
needs to be done to avoid such a
timeline. Uh but near enough that you
know would would kind of shake people a
little bit and and ultimately we do
think it's going to take a while for
this diffuse through the entire economy.
But it's more a question of you know
what happens at the leading edge. I
think especially in the US the the job
market is just very weak for white
collar jobs already and so the thinking
and the the ultimate fear is that it's
not going to take that much to sort of
push things over uh when we haven't
really generated any white collar jobs
in the US over the last 3 years uh when
you take out things like healthcare and
education that are primarily driven by
government spending and so that's kind
of the the underlying thesis here is
that there's going to be significant
replacement of jobs with AI specifically
AI agents those things only really came
into fruition in the last few months.
And so as it comes through and and shows
up in the productivity of uh of
different corporations, it that that's
when things are are going to get a
little uh little more interesting and
where we got to pay real attention
>> a lot. David here, were you surprised by
the by the market reaction?
>> Yeah, I was. I thought there was going
to be a small reaction. Uh it was
definitely larger than than we expected.
Uh but I think it's not that surprising
when you take a step back and consider
kind of where the markets are in the US.
Uh you know the AI trade has been going
on for 3 and a half years. It's been
more or less a straight line up and
essentially like everyone is max long
today. And so there really aren't many
incremental buyers left. And so it on
the one hand, you know, spooks people
when when you do consider what is
negative about this, but I think
specifically the market right now is
trying to digest this idea that AI has
gotten a lot more powerful in the last 6
months. And it's going to start changing
not you know it's not just going to crew
to the benefit of uh you know every
corporation and you know every
foundation lab and every semiconductor
company but instead it's starting to
disperse and figure out hey who are the
winners going to be and who are the
losers going to be and so you know
software is the best example the markets
have been selling software for almost a
year now on the AI threat. uh but they
really accelerated in the last few weeks
and this is you know the problem with
this if you're long software is there's
nothing to actually disprove the thesis
because the thesis is a few years out uh
it's not today but you you have not much
to stand on because ultimately that
thesis is going to get stronger as AI
itself gets stronger and so we just are
entering a really kind of highly
volatile time in the markets because the
timelines are are short but they're you
know the things are in fact happening
now
>> yeah I was about to say 2028 is closer
than
you know the most recent presidential
elections right let alone the pandemic
which in my mind seems still very very
fresh a lot I just would have been doing
my duty if I didn't ask you this the is
this were you or anyone at the research
firm short uh the these names going into
this going into this was this a short
seller report guised beautifully uh in
the form of a beautiful fiction
>> we are constantly sort of you know
turning our book and and we certainly
had shorts in some of these businesses.
We generally have a set of shorts out
against businesses that we think are
going to be disrupted by AI and on the
other side of that we own a lot of
semiconductors uh that we think are
going to benefit. Uh but ultimately we
just wanted to get this story out to the
market because the while while the risk
to individual stocks is certainly
meaningful, the the main story for us is
that the risk to the overall economy and
ultimately the consumer economy in a
world where you know we don't figure out
what to do if the jobs start going
faster than we think.
and you highlight quite uh articulately
just kind of what sectors might be hit,
right? I think food delivery was
certainly the one when you mentioned
about Door Dash, Uber Eats and the like.
This is really kind of the feebased
business model. Um you mentioned
software was sort of the opening shot.
You know, what other sectors do you
think could be the next victims here? I
know you lay out a whole list of them,
but what are the ones that we really
need to focus on? And maybe what are
some of the sectors are best positioned
in this whole AI scare trade?
>> Uh other sectors that I think we we
think have real risk are just generally
intermediation sectors. And so Door Dash
is is an intermediary runs a marketplace
for food, Uber for cars. But I think
where the markets are just beginning to
sniff things out is uh intermediate.
Most of financial services is ultimately
intermediation. uh you know insurance
companies uh are are are you know
intermediating risk uh banks ultimately
when it comes to their credit card
businesses as well as their lending and
and sort of uh deposit businesses are an
intermediary as well. And so the the
real basis of this uh this thought
exercise was just thinking hey you know
imagine it's 2 years from today and most
of the things that you do on your phone
instead now your agent does for you. So
instead of having to open up the Chase
app and, you know, go into Zel and send
a payment, you just simply speak to your
phone, hey, send a payment to my friend.
Uh, in that world, you were a lot less
tied to the UI of the Chase app uh, and
your bank branch and everything else
instead of just, hey, whatever gets it
done most easily and ultimately most
cheaply. And so right now the highle
thesis of all these intermediation
businesses for us is that they are
generating great returns because the
customer wants one relationship maybe
two relationships. They're comfortable
with that brand. They're comfortable
with the UI. They're comfortable with
their locations and so uh they just stay
with them. But in a world where you have
an agent and the agent's job is to just
look for better prices for things all
day every day, uh it's going to do a
good job of finding you alternatives
where you don't really feel the friction
of moving from Chase to uh city because
you know it's doing all the work for
you. you and similarly like if you think
about in financial advisors right now
it's really hard to move your money from
uh one financial adviser to even an ETF
right you got to open these accounts
you've got to make all these transfers
you got to do all this research if the
AI comes to you and just says hey you're
you're you know you're spending 1.25%
25% a year uh with an adviser at Raymond
James and instead uh you know you can
get essentially the same return minus
those fees with this ETF. Uh it will be
for some folks it might be a lot more
compelling to make those changes and so
most of a big part of the way uh these
businesses have modes and sort of keep
their customers every year is that there
is just a lot of friction to changing
and that friction really drops
precipitously in a world with agentic
AI.
Yeah. And you know what stood out to me
too is you know agentic AI as you point
out you know they I mean this it this
doesn't the technology does not consume
the same way humans do right
discretionary spending food travel uh
whatever so that massive
I don't know capital flows that would
usually go into uh you know things that
we uh consume you know goes if if you
think about it goes straight into the
pockets of the big tech. I want to
differentiate I guess the concepts from
this being bearish on humanity and
bearish perhaps on labor markets because
you do have some big winners that seem
to be emerging under your scenarios. And
how do you look at the big winners? It
might necessarily not be too bad for
markets is what I'm getting at here.
Ella,
>> it's tricky as far as how this goes for
markets if this plays out. Clearly
semiconductors are huge winners. Things
that are upstream to semiconductors are
huge winners. So everything required to
construct a data center and ultimately
kind of material stocks uh are huge
winners. Clearly foundation labs are
huge winners and then businesses that
that have sort of true economic modes uh
are are also big winners. So things like
you know ultimately things like brands
and other status goods that as long as
the consumer continues to spend uh will
do well. But the the the flip side is
the real thing to to sort of underscore
is if this plays out and especially if
it continues to play out without a
policy response then you know the the
thought experiment we used in the first
piece is let's say 5% of white collar
workers lose their jobs in 18 months uh
and there aren't other job other white
collar jobs for them to get because the
white collar you know just economy is
shrinking pretty badly. Uh what are
those folks going to do short of any
policy response? uh they're going to
have to go into the blueco collar
markets and the gig markets uh to try
and make ends meet. That is going to
massively depress uh the uh the average
price that someone's going to be able to
get for working in the blue collar
markets or the gig markets. And so it's
all one closed system. It starts with
white collar, but it is one closed
system. And so if we let AI replace the
jobs without taxing the AI
appropriately, then then it can really
get to the core of the consumer economy.
And that's where some of the real
contagion cases can happen. Now, as long
as we are cleareyed about what's
happening and then take steps to make
sure that uh you know, we're not trying
to suggest that we should just massively
increase attacks on AI companies or
semiconductors or anything else, but
there are going to be a clear set of
winners and a clear set of losers uh
from this scenario playing out or other
scenarios that rhyme with it, which seem
very likely uh in an AI world. And and
our our point here is that, you know, we
should be looking hard at uh figuring
out how to to to, you know, tax some of
those incremental gains, you know,
windfall gains really, uh, and sort of
keep our society running in whole. And
if we're able to do that, and then, you
know, let's say that 5% job loss happens
in 18 months, but it only translates to
a 1% or 1 and a.5% decrease in consumer
spending, you know, then we can we can
kind of work our way through that. But
if it translates to a four or five or 6%
decrease in consumer spending, then it's
very very scary.
>> You mentioned about the need for policy.
I I just want to kind of mention a
little bit more about this negative
feedback loop that you're saying that
this could have on the economy, right?
You're saying AI getting bigger, better,
and cheaper. Companies lay off workers.
They use the savings to invest more in
AI capabilities lead to more layoffs,
displace workers. Um, and then companies
that sell things that consumers sold
fewer than weakened. And then you have
use AI to protect margins. AI got better
and cheaper. A feedback loop with no
natural break. You mentioned in this
report though there's still time to
direct toward a different future that
we're not quite there and and we can
avoid that sort of extreme scenario
right now. I'm just wondering what is
going to be what breaks this negative
feedback loop.
>> So the the underlying feedback loop is
that the smarter the AI gets, the more
things it can do, the more jobs it can
replace. And that we think of is very
secular. Uh it it's never going to end.
Uh we're just going to continue to be
able to improve it. And so the feedback
loop needs to be broken uh from a policy
perspective. And so that means that we
need to understand kind of where the
jobs are going uh you know what's
causing the displacement and then figure
out how to tax the incremental gains or
the windfall gains from AI and those
those will occur in two places. They
will occur in the AI complex. soda
material stocks, semiconductor stocks
and you know foundation lab company
stocks and some tech stocks. Uh but the
other place likely that it will acrue in
an even larger form is in companies that
are able to cut a lot of jobs but don't
have their demand suffer as much because
you know their margins will also
explode. And so, you know, in that
world, it seems a little uh asymmetric
to have the same corporate tax rate uh
for someone who is selling uh food as
somebody who's selling uh a
semiconductor uh when that
semiconductor, that incremental
semiconductor is costing 10 jobs uh and
can really, you know, hit the market in
the economy. And so I think we need to
start thinking a little bit more
expansively about how we structure our
tax code so that you know we can
maintain the equilibrium and ultimately
in that world we think it's very bullish
because you know AI is massively
increasing productivity uh GDP growth
can zoom and we think be in a world
where you know there's a lot of more
abundance than there is today in a
relatively short order but if we want to
maintain the system as it stands now
rather than tear it up and build a new
one or tear it down and build a new one
uh then we got to think about sort of
tax policy that is targeted
specifically at what is driving those
job losses.
>> Um, are there specific
mile? Okay, let's okay, let's just say,
you know, it's it's it's a very useful
fiction at at at at at its worst, let's
call it that. 2028, you mentioned at the
top that that's just something that you
guys came up with that is not too far,
but not too near enough. Are there
specific milestone? Let's call it over
the next 5 years even that that seems
long but over the next 5 years specific
milestones that you think we should be
watching to figure out and course
correct or you know figure out whether
or not we are headed uh down this
specific path.
>> I think the biggest tell is uh white
collar employment in the US economy. We
think it's going to happen the fastest
in the US because AI is largely being
built there and it has the most dynamic
labor markets and so you it's much
easier to fire folks than it is in other
parts of the world. uh and so I think
the white collar labor market and then
maybe the the sort of eye of the storm
is really uh information workers uh and
they're hiring you know based on the
work we did that you know uh employment
by information category workers uh is
already down almost 8% from a peak in 20
uh uh three in 2023 and so that is
particularly scary and some of that was
like co excess when they overhired after
coming out of the pandemic but that
that's down a lot and that maps to
places like big tech where you see you
know round after round after layoff as
they're getting more efficient and as
they're able to roll out AI to do more
things and so I think the ultimate tell
will be uh the the employment that uh
sort of the makers of AI and the sort of
most advanced users of AI uh are putting
out and then I think other folks in that
complex. I think the further you go from
technology the slower the diffusion is
going to be but we can clearly see it in
technology. It's it's a pretty scary
picture and there's reason why it's not
going to spread elsewhere uh when we're
seeing the capabilities advance so fast.
>> A lot seems like this really is more of
a market story rather than maybe a tech
story in some ways. I I'm just wondering
what we're seeing the market reaction.
It it we're not quite seeing that here
in Asia particularly when it comes to
China itself. In fact, some of these
pure plays in in China are actually
outperforming and has been a dominant
theme uh here in in in China. Is there a
sense I mean China's making cheaper AI
models. Um is there a sense that they
can actually in some ways overthrow some
of these offerings the likes of
anthropic and what they're what they're
doing now at least outside the US.
>> I think there's two really interesting
observations with with what's going on
in China right now. I think a clearly uh
these uh these foundation lab companies
that have recently listed are really
zooming. It's not surprising to me uh
they're really the only way in the whole
world that you can get exposure to
foundational lab companies uh because
none of them are public in the US except
unless you want to buy Google when
you're buying a bunch of other things
too. Uh and so clearly there isn't that
much supply uh everyone in Asia but I
think you know folks all over the world
are rushing to buy these stocks in Hong
Kong and so it's not surprising to me
that they are outperforming in other
parts of the AI complex are
outperforming. Uh the other thing that I
find really interesting about China and
maybe that reflects in kind of what
you're seeing in a very muted response
today is there there might be a good
analog here for what happens over the
next two years in the US to some extent
what has happened over the last few
years in China where uh as technology
not you know so AI but other things as
well especially automation have uh have
really rolled through the economy in a
big way you know jobs aren't being
produced at the same level uh you can
the average corporate can do a lot more
with less humans uh and they're able to
you know ultimately not hire and it
leads to sort of a pretty weak consumer
economy that kind of can drag the entire
economy down. Uh so I think there is
probably some interesting analog there
as well. And I so I think you know
there's just a lot less uh expectation
sort of embedded in sort of China's uh
growth from a from a consumer
perspective right now. And so thus you
know this if it gets a little bit worse
shouldn't matter in the same way that
you know there's quite a bit embedded in
in kind of the US.
>> Alap thank you so much for the time. Uh
it was great to have you upshot there
from Lotus CIO who uh co-authored this
report from uh with Satrini Research
there. Uh but yes, look forward to your
next piece as well. Uh of course, we've
got to look ahead to another theme which
is the reopening of mainland markets
here today. Take a look at how the
pre-market is set up here right now.
We're just about 7 minutes away. We are
seeing maybe a possible catch up after
that 9-day holiday. So certainly that's
one thing to watch here. And of course
key to watch uh is not just the stock
side of things. The currency the remman
has been also stronger here given some
of the tariff headlines that we've seen.
And David you've been watching a lot on
how these oil markets and of course the
precious metals trade and the like and
how that's going. Yeah, because well
when we went into the long holiday and
we know we talk a lot we've talked a lot
about how this is what really a very
long one as far as mainland China was
concerned right 9 days that's really
when the Iran story gained a lot of
momentum right so you had Brent prices
north of 70 7172 at one point
>> and it's unsurprising why you look at
Shanghai crude as you see on your
screens right we're up 5% in that catch
up trade the rest of the markets
including I would say FX including
between offshore or in onshore are
actually not as untethered uh as you
were with energy markets. But yes, I
mean this is certainly one thing we'll
watch going into the open today
including its derivatives in the uh in
the equity market. Okay. Uh let's get
more on this mail and market reopen
today and really what we should be
making of this underperformance largely
on the index side of things. David Wong
joins us, senior investment strategist,
global co-head of equity business
development at Alliance Bernstein.
David, good morning. And first off,
thank you so much for being patient with
us and um wonder if you could c you
caught some part of the latest interview
we just did, but okay, just talk to us
then the starting point equity markets
when you look at EM this China's been
left behind this year, year to date.
Hangen tech index, Chinese tech stocks,
platforms have underperformed how are
you looking at this price dynamic right
now?
>> Sure. Thanks uh very much for having me
uh David and Non. I would uh
characterize our our current view on uh
tech and China as being uh somewhat
neutral. uh we uh do like uh other
opportunities elsewhere in the region a
bit more but um you know from a China
perspective while uh AI you know as uh
your last guest uh you know patently
made clear is uh you know very much uh
the main concern of markets uh and also
uh the source of greatest opportunity.
uh we think that uh a number of the AI
themed companies in China are a little
bit extended uh at at this particular
juncture and uh you know to the extent
that we are engaging in the AI
infrastructure trade we want to uh do so
you know from a second or third
derivative uh perspective where uh
valuations are are not quite as
challenging. uh we do like uh you know
some parts of the consumer market. Uh we
uh you know took some uh uh uh you know
pleasure and comfort from what we saw in
terms of uh retail activity in China
over the long holiday. And uh you know
in terms of uh what we uh continue to uh
bang the table on uh at this particular
juncture it really is in the material
sector which uh we think is a great
opportunity in China not only because of
AI but also because of uh
anti-involution policies and uh
improving supply demand dynamics uh in
the uh uh uh metals and and commodity
sector.
Yeah, you you said that in terms of the
Asare market, you're still overweight
some of these idiosyncratic sort of
themes, right? And maybe the less
crowded AI supply chain plays. I I'm
just wondering what what that might be.
For now, it seems like investors
preference is really the pure AI plays
over the internet giants. Is that how
you play it?
>> Yeah. Uh that's actually why I mentioned
the material sector. People don't think
of copper and copper mining as uh
something that is AI related, but it is
very much uh part of the uh the power
buildout that will be necessary to fuel
all of those data centers uh and uh uh
the infrastructure in general that uh
China and you know frankly the rest of
the world requires. It's also uh a key
uh element uh uh along with other
materials uh for uh battery technology
and battery storage will be part of uh
what will be necessary uh for us to uh
use uh you know uh things like wind and
solar for instance uh and uh to really
capture uh all of the different sources
of power that we will need to harness uh
to power all of these data centers. Uh
and when we look at uh how uh the supply
and demand dynamics are working, uh we
think because many of the mining
companies in China are state-owned
enterprises,
uh they uh do tend to pay more attention
to government policy. So we're we're
actually quite excited about this part
of the market today.
>> Yeah, that's also a good point that you
make, right? This is also an
anti-involution beneficiary. If you look
at those two uh sort of that that ven
diagram where these materials come into
play you you you talk also about since
we're coming out of the holiday talk to
us about this this call around some of
the travel related stocks whether that's
hotel hospitality FnB is that is is that
a place of the market I should be
entertaining at this point
>> we absolutely think so when we look at
uh revpar numbers uh for uh you know
some of the the lodging companies they
have been sequentially improving every
single quarter. Uh and uh what we also
see is that uh you know while uh uh
Chinese travel abroad has been muted
compared to past years, we are starting
to see a gradual recovery. uh we are
seeing more interest in independent
travel and uh when all of this dovetales
with visa-free access for Chinese
citizens we do think that this is uh
actually a real positive and you know
there is uh uh seeming to be an
improvement uh in inbound tourism as
well. So uh there's a lot of things to
like uh in the uh travel and tourism
sector. Uh and you know while certainly
the recovery of uh uh the consumer is
uneven in China uh this is one of those
areas uh you know namely experiences uh
where the Chinese consumer still seems
uh willing to spend.
>> David, thanks so much for joining us
here as well. David Wong, senior
investment strategist and global co-ed
of equity business development at
Alliance Bernstein. Your market open
just happening here right now. And here
you go. You are seeing at the early side
of of opening trade here after nine days
of holiday CSI 300 coming back with a
catch-up trade. We're up about one and a
half% uh for the CSI 300. Shanghai comp
as well as Shenzhen is seeing gains of
more than 1%. Uh we talked about that
catchup when it comes to not just stocks
but also when it comes to crude markets
given the volatility that we've seen
around oil prices. Uh there you go.
You're seeing a 4.6% when it comes to
Shanghai crude. Copper is also catching
a bit here today. Iron ore though seems
to be heading the opposite direction.
We're down some 2%. But then it is still
some of the the AI plays, chip plays
seem to be still doing quite well. Even
the consumption plays like Madea Group
are all seeing gains of more than 1%.
Capricorn tech also up more than 1%. So
uh right now it seems like things are
doing quite well. Uh commodities, bonds
seem to be not doing too much, but we'll
see how the onshore rate uh trades here.
Of course that takes a little bit of
time here but we have seen of course
given the tariff situation the dollar
has seen a broad decline. So remmbb has
been trading on the stronger side of
things. Let's take a look how Hong Kong
is fairing here because uh we did see
that quite a rebound yesterday here how
we open right now. There you go. Uh it
seems like we are coming off uh what we
saw yesterday. So we're we're down in
terms of HStech by about one and a half%
here today. So maybe they are feeling
some of the the fears of the AI scare
trade here today. But you're seeing the
likes of BU that's down some 2% here as
well. Alibaba 10-centent also seeing
some downside moves. Uh HSBC even the
Darling ahead of those earnings are also
down here today. A property that
certainly is one thing. I think Son Kai
had some pretty interesting numbers that
came out here or at least when it comes
to the preview. Um they're expecting
some pretty Yeah, there must be some
pretty good numbers in terms of the
recovery that we're seeing in Hong Kong
as well. So yeah, uh right now we're
seeing that we're talking about some of
the the AIP plays, right? So yesterday
we've saw a massive draw down and some
of the eight share ones, Miniax, Japu,
uh by double digits. Um but this is
after what we've seen. I mean right
these these stocks have gained fourfold
since they start they listed, right? Um
mixed picture here right now, but more
threads on shore is seeing a little bit
gains here today, Dave.
>> Yeah. Uh we're looking at miniax
specifically and I really like that word
distilled because there's really this
element of almost an engineering aspect
that you are trying to just separate two
elements here. Uh you know alcohol is a
very good example right how you distill
something of a specific liquid and then
just split chemically what what goes
into that. And the reason I bring that
up is distilled was a very strong word
that was used here in terms of
anthropic, deepseek and miniax distilled
these AI models here for for games. Uh
Bell is with us here to talk us through
this. Our Asia tech correspondent to
tell us what we know about all all of
these things here.
>> I'm going to take it from alcohol back
to uh the technical side.
>> Okay. Please, please go ahead. Yes,
that's a reference I'm familiar with.
We're talking about distillation
techniques and and it is familiar
because it was a similar sort of
allegation that OpenAI levied against
Deep Seek just a few weeks back. But in
an AI sense, distillation refers to
essentially a compression technique. So
what you're doing is is putting a a
small compact student model to in a
position essentially to train off one
that's larger that the sort of like that
teacher model. And so you want it to to
essentially mimic the the behavior, the
performance, the knowledge. And that is
the allegation that is now also being
levied at at not just uh JIP JIPU but
also or rather Miniax but also uh we've
got a couple of others that are in
focus. Deepseek of course and then
Moonshot. Moonshot continues to be held
privately in China and Deepseek of
course we're very familiar with that
name but saying that in aggregate these
three models have been doing exactly
that. uh they've been generating more
than 16 million exchanges in total with
the the clawed models using thousands of
fraudulent accounts. So going back to
that sort of covert network, how they're
getting past those sorts of uh security
parameters that are in place. But uh
yes, as I said, OpenAI said a similar
thing about deepseek earlier this month
in a warning to lawmakers and it is
something that's in the the the eyes of
lawmakers as well in Washington because
the AISAR, for instance, David Saxs has
also expressed very much the same
concerns here that DeepS has been using
these distillation techniques. So yeah,
I mean you know the whole idea was
deepseek was using more with less. I
guess it's also that question of the
methodology they're using to do that as
well.
>> Um there was also I mean what we saw in
the IBM's situation right that they this
claude was able to basically improve you
know some of the language models that
were in these IBM machines. Can you
explain a little bit more about that
warning from Anthropic? Yeah. So, this
is talking about Cobalt, which is a
computer programming language that
actually
>> was first uh introduced in 1959. So,
that just tells you how old it is, 1959.
>> And and what IBM is saying or what what
Anthropic is saying is that it's Claude
code tool essentially can can improve or
modernize this computer programming
language. And I think it's very
interesting the way that they're sort of
pitching this as well. They're saying
that given the the the age on this, the
people that obviously created cobalt
have long since retired. There's just a
handful of universities as well that are
teaching cobalt today. So there's a
basically no one that's coming into the
market to to be able to do this. And so
they put out this statement saying that
that essentially yeah, they they can do
what would have otherwise taken people
years of mapping to do, they can do just
in a very short space of time with this
clawude code tool. And that is why you
saw such a sharp sell-off in IBM because
it still makes a pretty big chunk of its
revenue from mainframes and many of
these rely on the clawed programming oh
sorry the cobalt programming language
and and cobalt is used extensively
across a number of different sectors
including finance, airlines, government.
I mean it's it's really integral to the
overall global economy.
>> Yeah. Hence that reaction that we saw in
the stock. All right. Thank you.
Annabelle jewelers there our bloomer
tech correspondent on the latest on all
things anthropic uh miniax as well as
IBM. Uh let's continue that story right
because it was also this interview with
the black swan author Nasim Talib with
that warning that really spooked
investors as well saying that you know
brace for escalating volatility and
potential bankruptcies in the software
sector as the AIdriven rally enters a
more fragile phase. He also told us
exclusively that tariffs can be
effective if implemented predictably,
but erratic execution discourages
investment.
>> The tariff policy
tariffs are can be a smart thing. The
execution of that is completely crazy
and erratic. It doesn't give you an in
an incentive to uh invest. So if you
know that they're going to have tariffs
permanently, you go invest in a sector.
You don't even have that. they can
change their mind. You know, again, an
erratic administration is not helping.
And plus, the tariffs are not selected
in a way to be rational because they
affect now they affect a class of the
population.
That's you know is a regressive tax. So
we have it's going to have an effect. If
it doesn't have an effect yet
eventually things will show
>> on low income consumers specifically or
just bigger economy economic picture
>> I I yeah overall you have a shift just
had a shift you know for the for more
inequality and this exacerbates it and
it's not healthy in the long run and
that shift for inequality has been
exacerbated by AI
>> let's talk about AI by the way so we saw
a huge selloff uh in the stock market
driven specifically ally by some AI
names. What is your take? What's
happening?
>> Again, it's structural that historically
if you look at history, the car
companies, airline companies,
um and and of course the personal
computer, okay, if you look historically
that those who started the business, the
pioneers are not necessarily the
winners. As a matter of fact, they're
probably more likely to be the losers.
So now people take names of AI and say,
"Okay, these are going to win. Let's
invest. I'm sure someone's going to make
a lot of money in uh both software and
hardware related to AI, but doesn't
necessarily have to be these companies
because you have a lot of instability
both technologically and of course in in
geographically with with AI.
>> So does it mean you expect uh
bankruptcies in let's say software
space?
>> Definitely. Plus the effect on the stock
market as you realize that the previous
rally that we had was driven by very
small number of names and now we
probably have some broadening rebroading
effect some redistribution but a lot of
the gains in the stock market okay are
going to be eradicated by that. So this
is why you have you know we're at a
juncture of of lot of instabilities
across many domains
>> that was the author of the black swan
Nasim Taylor there speaking exclusively
with our colleague Natalyia Nazich in
Miami right for our well everyone of
course who has an internet connection uh
our new online feature and of course for
our Bloomberg clients and subscribers
you can check out this new hub we have
live streaming news, interviews, and all
Bloomberg TV shows, documentaries,
reporter analysis, and more. Our new
video hub, of course, is online. Check
it out. bloomer.com/
video. We'll leave you with a look at
market. We're about We're going into 10
minutes into the year of the horse for
mainland markets coming back online
today.
>> Galloping.
>> Galloping out of the gates.
>> Dashing. Not really, but yeah, dashing
>> through the snow if you're in the US. 1%
to the upside. CSI 300. This is the
China Show.
Right, welcome back. You're watching the
China Show. An EU assessment has found
that President Trump's new tariff policy
will raise levies on some of the blocks
exports above levels permitted under
their trade agreement. Now the new
global tariff will be added to existing
levies resulting in goods like cheese,
butter, plastics, textiles and chemicals
facing duties above 15%.
>> All right. Uh we have some latest lines
here uh when it comes to what the trade
discussions are looking like here um
when it comes to the chief cabinet
secretary of Japan. So this is Minoru
Kariqara speaking uh this morning. So
they say they plan to proceed with the
US trade agreement and uh they also
talked about uh when it comes to
Canada's PM Mark Carney is going to
visit Japan next week as well. So
certainly that's one thing to watch but
they are assessing right now the impact
of this US tariff ruling. So it seems
like right now they are going to keep
how things hold when it comes to some of
those trade negotiations between the US
and Japan. Um but certainly we've been
talking about you know what this means
right whether it's 10% whether it's 15%.
have you reached sort of a peak when it
comes to US effective tariff rates right
I think Morgan Stanley sort of made that
line here and Bloomberg economics has
also been sort of crunching the numbers
a bit about you know it seems like in in
some ways US allies maybe like Japan
that had negotiated pretty good deals
with the US they seem to be maybe less
competitive now compared to some of the
foes right we take a look at you know
the likes of India the likes of Brazil
the likes of China for example that are
now you know are exempt from these sort
of IPA tariffs And they mentioned right
when China we're talking about what
prior was 31% we're now talking about
24% where those effective tariff rates
could could land
>> if if in fact it holds true the 15% rate
>> comparatively to where the uh the rivals
the prior tax rates the rivals itself
right not not absolute levels but
interesting too is you know this time
last year we were as confused
as to what the tariff regime was going
to be going in and at that point right
We were a few weeks going into
liberation day and week, right, which
was first week of first week of April.
And certainly what's interesting is that
we're here 12 months on, we're still
trying to figure out where where the
tariff guard rails are going to be.
Yeah.
>> Um, and I think that really puts the,
you know, the the the point we just did
about the EU, this line that's coming
through out of Japan where you have US
allies now figuring out do they do they
stay or do they wait uh this new tariff
regime, right? Let's get uh more on the
numbers that we just showed you there.
Uh Bloomberg economics thinks that we
were just talking about this as well
while China does stand to benefit from
some of the top u the top court's
decision and tax the boost to export and
growth might actually prove fleeting and
really make uh cut almost not not not a
material difference as far as the growth
picture is concerned. Changu is with us
our chief Asia economist is here on set
with us to help us break down the
numbers and the eventual impact this is
going to have on growth which is more
consequential.
>> Yeah. And so so certainly this um
positive news to to some extent you
already highlighted the figures. Now uh
with a global flat rate of 15% China
could see an average or effective um
tariff uh at uh 24%. Uh that's still
above the world average now that they
with 15% the world average uh tariff
rate will be 12%. China is still not
competit competitive compared to the
world. Yes. Yet it's less so less so
compared to before. So that's positive
news to some extent. But but that's so
much uncertainties and and and uh the
situation is so fluid. we we don't know
exactly what the um tariff regime is
going to be and uh for China's uh
particular circumstances a China um
Chinese exporters over the past few
years have been reorientating away from
the US given the uncertainties given the
fleet fleeting nature of the current
regime it's not clear how Chinese
exporters just can quickly reorientate
their supply chains to capture the
benefits from the uh rate cuts and
separately very quickly and China um has
been very resilient in in its exports
and the resilience doesn't come from the
uh tax rate uh a small tax rate changes
or something it's more coming from its
strength in its exports it's being um
diversifying
it's um rolling out new products to
export to to the world. You you think
about EVs and and batteries and so on.
So so benefits can be small and and and
too quick to capture really.
>> Yeah. You mentioned this export
challenges have already taken a new
shape, a new fight, right? It's more
about it's so strong that it's straining
ties with allies.
>> Um maybe not just about us anymore. You
also mentioned that this could also
prolong some of the deep domestic
weakness that we're seeing the economy.
Can you flesh that out a little bit
more?
>> Yes, indeed. We see a challenge of of a
different sort. We talked about the
strength, but that the strength also
means that China is running the biggest
ever uh external imbalance the world has
seen. We saw that last year China's
trade surplus against the world was 1.2
into tr and and and that uh that's
causing concerns across different um
parts of the world. There are the
strings with the EU and I visited
recently I visited Vietnam and and
Indonesia. You think those countries are
on the same supply chains as China yet
they are still concerns? I mean they
certainly welcome China's um exports and
to some extent and and China's
investment in their countries but at the
same time they're concerned about the uh
the the large exports. So, China
certainly needs to work with its
treatment partners to ease those
attentions and in the meantime uh China
really have to sort of work more
aggressively to promote domestic
consumption and and and absorb those uh
products more domestically. You know,
this came up actually interesting. You
bring up that
the reason exports in China are doing so
well is not because of the tariff rates.
It's because you have an ecosystem that
allows for exports to be powerful. And
this was brought up yesterday. remember
when the Amcham Hong Kong came up and
said an emerging trend has really been
Chinese well foreign American companies
returning to China because of the supply
stable supply chain and policy framework
that you have there. So my question to
you is
>> um may I add Go ahead. Go ahead. Yeah.
May I add to that the there's also the
scale issue. Yeah. So um yeah I mean the
scale custom cost as well.
>> Okay. And you can't replicate that
anywhere else.
>> Yeah.
>> So so what so you put that together with
the fact that it's a stable policy
regime.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh do you expect this export machine to
keep exporting this year? How big do you
think this current account's going to
get this year?
uh it's hard to make a projection on on
on the uh the fouryear um the uh the
surplus but but I do anticipate the
export machine will keep strong going
>> for months and and and potentially years
ahead. I mean China as I understand is
making efforts and to work uh uh other
countries and it has shown some
progress. For example, China reached a
trade deal with um Canada and there
appear to be progress in discussions
with the EU and um and surprisingly
we're going to issue a note shortly this
afternoon when I visited Indonesia.
There was a surprising warmth towards
China in Indonesia. Um and because uh
for Indonesia
they uh they they have a downstream u
agenda themselves. They want to uh move
from simply exporting raw material to do
more processing by themselves and China
is investing in that. But at the same
time some other countries for example EU
um this is what the locals told me um
the issue for example would label the
restriction to export raw material as
non-tariff barriers. So so sort of
tensions with with some of the countries
with other countries. So in this at this
point um the the uh the this there's a
need certainly for China to do more uh
with uh treatment partners.
>> Fantastic. We look forward to the piece
in the note coming through as well.
That's really great context there from
Changu. There are out of our Bloomberg
economics there. Uh more reaction now to
tariff developments yet. The Bank of
Montreal CEO Daryl Wyatt says he's not
surprised by a muted reaction that
followed the Supreme Court decision to
strike down President Trump's tariffs.
>> You know, he tells Bloomberg that many
of their corporate clients have adjusted
to the swings in trade policy under the
Trump administration.
>> I think it's early days. I mean, the
announcement's a couple of days old on
AIPA. If you look at the market
reaction, it's been pretty subdued as
we've all been talking about this
morning. I think part of that is because
some of the outcome that we've saw over
the last few days was probably priced
into bond markets. So we haven't seen
much of a reaction there. And if you
talk to most of the corporates that
we're dealing with, the reality is over
the course of the last year or so, the
instability and the volatility that's
been brought by various decisions over
the course of the last year on tariffs
have become a little bit more normal
course. So in the meantime, they've
rebuilt supply chains or organized
themselves in different ways to have
resiliency and how they think about
dealing to surprise or maybe not such a
surprise uh as the case may be depending
on the audience. uh so in the meantime
uh more stable than you might think.
>> How much do you hear also a discussion
around domestic production and
expediting some of the licensing around
getting say for example the copper mine
in Arizona up and running at a time when
there is this priority on metals of all
sorts.
>> Yeah, that's a live conversation. I mean
I think it's and I think it's a very
important one because if you think about
the confluence of two forces, we've got
the demand being driven by the AI power
up. So the newest industries are
literally dependent on the oldest
industries in addition to the global
order reorganizing at the same time.
There's a massive demand push here and
the response to that at the end of the
day is going to hit a bottleneck on the
supply side. So the the needed
reorganization of permitting of getting
to market faster of regulatory reform is
a really active conversation and I think
as you know we're seeing some positive
developments on that particularly here
in the United States.
Welcome back to the China show. Here's a
look at the CSI 300. A half hour into
the session after nine days of holidays
and really we come back on a pretty
strong footing here. That catch-up trade
although we've come off some of the
initial highs. Uh but largely speaking
if you look at how the region is doing.
It looks like we've kind of avoided most
of the AI angsts of this whole scare
trade that happened in the US. We're
focusing on of course the return of
China here today, Dave.
>> Yes. uh and we are galloping
quite nicely uh with an open stride and
perhaps a a more visible outlook as far
as the path ahead is concerned here. So
CSI 300's up 9 cents to 1%. Uh in fact
later on we'll show you what's happening
across the stock connect. Of course we
resume to dre across that uh connect
between mainland exchange as seen here
in Hong Kong. Uh benchmarks are looking
like this. In fact, it's the opposite
um it's the opposite direction as far as
price is concerned. It's also worth
pointing out it's also the opposite in
Hong Kong of what we did yesterday. Um
opposite of the gains that we had there.
Uh CGB market is coming on your screens.
We have bond auctions today to tell you
about. Loan prime rates by the way came
out about an hour back. No change there.
2029 and 2036 bonds of course are being
sold uh today. Right. We mentioned the
stock connect. So in the initial goings
uh suggest that it's net selling
southbound. So we are getting some flows
coming out of me of Hong Kong listed
names. That's going to be in the right
side of your screens. That little red
spot you see at the very rightmost side
of our chart which by the way is live
chart that updates too. Uh there's the
plug. Uh we're looking at commodity
markets in China coming online. The
catchup there is the oil price. Apart
from that, nothing much else as far as
that uh catchup trade is concerned. Oil
of course while China was shut for uh
the better part of two weeks was the
Iran story really gained a lot of
traction. So 5% up uh on Shanghai crude
the rest of the region you have the
nickel you have the topics Cosby and
Taiwan coming up on your screens and as
you pointing out largely of course
avoiding the fate overnight that we saw
there on Wall Street. Yeah, look at
Taiwan too coming back from their lunar
new year holiday on a pretty strong
footing as well. And it's interesting,
right? You mentioned about the sequence
of events that really kind of led to
this sort of scare trade in the US. Uh
it really was from that satrini research
report that you know it almost is like a
dark
>> fictional
pathetic like what what how when AI is
too good
>> what could it disrupt and everything
from software to food delivery to to
even the economy and the sort of
negative feedback loop uh which we did
speak with uh one of the authors Alab
Shaw about and really he himself said he
was pretty surprised by the overall
market reaction that we saw
I thought there was going to be a small
reaction. Uh it was definitely larger
than than we expected. Uh but I think
it's not that surprising when you take a
step back and consider kind of where the
markets are in the US. Uh you know the
AI trade has been going on for 3 and 1/2
years. It's been more or less a straight
line up and essentially like everyone is
max long today and so there really
aren't many incremental buyers left. And
so it on the one hand, you know, spooks
people when when you do consider what is
negative about this, but I think
specifically the market right now is
trying to digest this idea that AI has
gotten a lot more powerful in the last 6
months.
>> Uh that was the co-author of course of
that report that scared the markets
overnight. Joining us now is Lenting
too, our managing editor for Asia
Equities. Lenting, thanks for joining
us. Apart from a very short list of
names, Soft Bank is one. It seems Asia
is uh immune to the AI scare trade, not
just today.
>> Yeah, I think uh the interview clip that
you just showed just reinforcing uh the
idea among investors that Asia uh or
Asia's tech giants are really well
positioned in this AI boom in the data
center buildout. We talked about, you
know, the memory chip makers in Korea
and TSMC, the biggest chip maker in the
world. But if you look at Japan, they
also have a lot of chippy equipment
makers. Again, these are the
beneficiaries right in the AI boom. So
it it makes Asia a relative haven right
now when US is really concerned about
all these uh companies inter
intermediaries according to Alaba being
disrupted. And if you look at Asia, you
don't actually have all these big
intermediary stocks listed on Asia
exchanges again. So that is bolstering
the case that Asia resilience or Asia
outperformance which is at a record
against S&P 500 right now uh for year to
date is going to continue.
Yeah and certainly I think China in some
ways benefits from that right you take a
look at how the likes of Jupu u many
Macs have really done so far this year
Nanting um this this market reopen in
China we we had a positive backdrop when
it came to the terrorist situation maybe
the whole AI plays as well but there is
sort of this theme that we're seeing
among a lot of this you know analysts
out there about you know they're taking
part in EM exchina here right now
>> yeah I think for For China, the
narrative, there's a huge contrast
between China and the US right now in
terms of what people are focused on. In
the US, it's AI scare trade. A lot of
anxiety there. In China, people are
talking about holiday spending being
really, really good. If you look at
bookings for uh family trip over the
holiday period, it was up 76%
year-over-year. And people are again
talking about robotics, the the ones
that can play kung fu uh in the spring
festival gala. and the there is a lot of
adv advancement this this year around
versus their performance last year. So
again that's becoming a focal point for
investors and also China itself is
racing to win this AI race as you guys
mentioned the large language model
makers Mini Max and Jupool is still
leading the way so overall just there is
a lot of optimism um when China is now
coming back online of course the tariff
news is also helping we've talked about
how China is an outstanding winner in
this uh Supreme Court ruling just
because the 10% fentinel tariff will be
dropped and China is now facing the
equal tariffs uh uh with the the trading
partners uh of the US.
>> Okay, Lanting, thank you. Our managing
editor for Asia Equities, Lenting too,
here uh we just have some lines here
crossing when it comes to China. So, uh
we are hearing when it comes to the
ministry of
>> commerce
>> commerce here. Okay. So they have banned
the dual use exports to 20 Japanese
firms. Well, we are hearing in terms of
some of the list of companies that
they're talking about among this 20
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Kawasaki
that are under this export control list
right now. So um we're trying to kind of
see what the details are, but it seems
like they're adding some of these
Japanese companies to list on national
security concerns here right now. What
else do you see, Dave? Yeah. Well, the
market reaction seems to be in fact as
this lines dropped it's now gaining
traction. It's we were down but we were
down we're down much further as we
speak. Uh the well we have 20 firms now
well so far this is actually in Mandarin
so there we need a bit of translation uh
and as far as the actual statement is
concerned but you know the headline
tells you most of the things you need to
know at this point in time. We'll dig
into this a little bit further. Uh but
yes, this is an announcement coming
through out of China's Ministry of
Commerce
um talking about how 20 Japanese
entities will be added will be added to
that export control list and yeah that's
it's a very very short statement of
course so we'll we'll keep on top of
this right uh coming up uh we'll put
everything from geopolitics which goes
into this
uh fluid
tariff uh scenarios situation that
markets are trying to grapple with at
the moment. Uh Ray Ferris joins us. He's
with Eastring Investments. He's chief
economist. He's joining us out of
Singapore in a moment. Uh keep an eye on
that plus others more ahead. This is the
China show.
More of the terrorist situation. Now,
the US said to be preparing a series of
investigations that would enable
President Trump to impose new tariffs.
Now, a source says industries in focus
include batteries, electric grid, and
telecom equipment, plastics, and
industrial chemicals. Now, the
investigations would be under the
section 232 of the trade expansion act,
which allows the president to impose
levies based on national security
concerns.
>> Right. The EU has paused work on
ratifying its trade deal with the US as
it warns President Trump's new par
tariff policy will breach the agreement.
Now, the European Commission says
Trump's new 15% global tariff would be
added to levies already in place, taking
the total above the agreed ceiling.
That's the operative phrase there. Now,
without naming any country or block,
Trump posted on social media that anyone
who plays games with existing trade
agreements would face even higher
tariffs. Let's bring in Ray Ferris now,
chief economist at Eastring Investments,
and he joins us out of Singapore. Ray,
it's good to have you uh on the program
here this morning. Uh just given that,
you know, we're still trying to figure
out if it's 10%, is it 15% uh tariff
rates in the US now, but overall, you
know, I'm sure you had a chance to
crunch the numbers here. Netn net, is
this going to be a relief for much of
the world?
>> Good morning. Thanks for having me. I
think the the summary is uh US defective
tariff rates have peaked. They peaked in
October, November last year and the
Scotas decision has basically brought
them down for most but not all
countries. Of course, Trump is uh going
to try to use section 232 and 301 to
give him flexibility to recreate the
tariff structure after these 122
tariffs, the 15% that he imposed from
today, um expire after about 150 days.
But I I think he's going to struggle
with that for a couple of reasons. Um
the first thing to say is I think the
122 tariffs probably will not be
extended by Congress. I'm not certain of
that, of course, but it's clear to me
that there's a greater reluctance in
Congress to embrace tariffs as a lot of
the electorate um move against tariffs
because of affordability concerns and
prices. The other thing is that the um
against a background of that growing
sort of reluctance to use tariffs at
least away from the president, I think
they're going to become a political
issue going into the midterm elections.
>> Okay, Ray, the
how does the US economy look to you is
is is my question. And I guess part of
that question will be what do you think
the next move from the Fed will likely
be? Is it going to be higher or lower?
whether that's a year or or or beyond
from this point in time.
>> Okay. So, the economy is turning along.
We expect growth of a little over 2%
this year in GDP. The first quarter
stands out in that it looks like there's
a bit of a bounce in employment activity
taking place. That's keeping the
unemployment rate lower than the Fed's
forecast and forcing the Fed to be on
hold. Combine that with the PCE data
that came out uh a couple days ago
showing that core PC, the Fed's
preferred measure of inflation, is stuck
at about 3%. And there are elements of
the committee that are actually thinking
about whether in some scenarios they may
need to hike rates. That's an
environment that's going to be just very
difficult for the sort of 58 basis
points that markets have priced by the
end of the year to come to fruition. I I
think the Fed's a little overpriced.
>> A little overpriced. Um and you
mentioned some of the Trump policies
that are contributing to some of the Fed
concerns, whether it's around tariffs,
oil prices obviously have been quite
elevated recently as well. Uh are we
expecting this year that the Fed is
going to have to tilt towards, you know,
you know, restoring jobs over, you know,
fighting inflation? Are we likely to see
that shift
>> amongst the Fed this year?
probably not. I think the greater
likelihood is that the Fed just stays on
hold through the first half of the year,
maybe cuts rates once, maybe twice in
the second half of the year, but the the
labor market's in a situation where
labor demand growth has slowed but has
not collapsed. If anything, there's a
little bit of a bounce that's taking
place early this year. Supply has slowed
very dramatically because of immigration
policy. There's basically no immigration
into the US this year and domestic
indigenous growth of the labor force is
kind of maybe half a percent. It's very
slow. So the unemployment rate remains
at historically low rates of 4.3 to
4.4%. I mean if if we were back in 2017
2018 those would be rates that we would
consider to be very low. Um, so I think
you've got a Fed that's just simply on
hold for much of the year.
>> Ray, just to turn our attention to
China, we have of course the the the two
sessions coming up where we have of
course the growth targets being lined up
uh in the next couple of weeks.
The market specifically has run with a
concept of new economies. So the AI
plays have done very well. Cyclicals
have not. I wonder whether we should be
looking at growth and can there be
growth support coming from new economy
sectors or is that still just a market
story for now?
the very clear message that we take away
from government policy since October of
last year. Um the the first signals out
of the uh plenum about the next 5-year
plan, the December economic working
committee, and I think what's going to
come out of the NPC in March is that
this is a government that's going to
focus policy on selected sectors. It's
not going to deliver a broad general
macro stimulus. Those selected sectors
are very much going to be in new economy
areas, not just AI and chips, but also
elements of pharmaceuticals and medical
devices and aerospace that the
government sees as higher value added.
It has to stimulate the economy. The
economy is clearly slowed. We've yet to
see, you know, the first robin of spring
uh emerge from any of the stimulus
that's been announced so far. I think
it'll really be closer to May, June
before we get a clear pickup in in
growth, but it will be there. Investors
are going to have to be very focused on
following the Chinese government's
stimulus rather than investing in the
broad market, though.
Um, Ray, and I'm not sure if you read
this whole AI report from Catrini uh
over the weekend here, but they
highlight what a very dark picture of
the of what AI disruptions could have on
the economy, right? Whether, you know,
this could displace jobs and then it
leads to, you know, less investment and
and then consumption sort of weakens and
then it could lead to the economy to
contract as well. Obviously, we saw a
very strong market reaction to the
downside to to some of this. But as an
economist, how do you see this? Do you
think that some of these concerns are a
bit overdone?
My starting point is really to focus on
history and it's almost regardless of
how far you want to go back through the
industrial revolution every time a new
technology comes out there mass fears of
mass unemployment. You know we can go
back to the lites and the reality is
that over and over again technology
creates new jobs. It displaces the labor
force. It moves people around from one
sector to another sector and that can
create pockets of inequality. The data
that have been published so far show
that that's exactly what's happening
with AI. So there is some inequality
that's beginning to emerge.
Higher skilled workers that are able to
adopt AI are doing better than lower
skill workers that are not. Countries
that have better infrastructure to be
able to capitalize on AI are doing
better than countries that don't. In
that vein, Asia really stands out
because almost all of our countries have
clear dedicated government strategies to
developing AI infrastructure. You see
that in Singapore, you see it in
Malaysia, you see in Japan, in China.
And that's one of the reasons why we
think that Asia will continue to
outperform.
Ray, thank you so much for spending uh
part of your morning with us. Ray Harris
there, chief economist at Eastring
Investments in Singapore, joining us um
out of Singapore today. Uh in other
world news that we're tracking at this
point, this powerful winter storm has
knocked out power to 600,000
homes and businesses across the US
Northeast, grounding more than 10,000
flights uh and disrupting inner city
rail services. Now, Central Park in New
York City recorded about 20 ines of
snow, but roads and bridges have been
reopened to most traffic, and schools
will resume classes on Tuesday. Now,
forecasters say more snow may fall later
this week. Now, a US uh delegation is
said to be planning to discuss nuclear
options with Chinese representatives in
Geneva. A State Department official
tells Bloomberg that US officials
already met with Russian counterparts on
Monday and will meet the Chinese group
on Tuesday. The Trump administration is
trying to start a new round of arms
control talks with both Moscow and
Beijing. More coming up. This is
Bloomberg.
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. Uh Panama has ordered the
temporary occupation here of two ports
operated by a unit of CK Hutcherson.
That's after the country's
constitutional court ruled against the
firm's concession. Ask Hutch. Uh the
Panama subsidiary has reportedly called
a port takeover illegal.
>> Our global business editor Karen Lee
joins us now with more on this. And so
tell us a bit more about this latest
update. What does this mean for the
company going forward?
>> Yeah, I mean this isn't news that would
have made CK Hutcherson very happy
today. Um Panama ordering the temporary
occupation. I'm just looking at what we
have coming across the terminal here of
two of its ports um in a key strategic
waterway. They're going to be taken over
in the interim by Marisque and MSC which
are of course competitors. Um and the
CKH unit according to reports immedi
immediately calling that move illegal.
But the two things we're watching really
closely are one how much this is going
to spook investors who've had a lot of
anxiety about recent moves um over
what's going to happen to these ports.
And the other, of course, is how much of
a cloud this is or isn't going to cast
over Lee Kushing's global ports deal for
43 of his global facilities, including
those two ports in Panama. Um, now, so
far, the stock was muted today. It was
down less than 1% at opening. Um, and
after a top court in Panama struck down
a concession to operate the ports in
January, the stock fell. So, that was
good news for CK today. A bit less
movement than I think we were expecting,
and we'll see where this goes.
And Karen, how important is the is the
is the ports deal uh just in terms of,
you know, the political backdrop right
now?
>> I mean, it couldn't be more important
and it couldn't come at a moment when
it's going to be more in the spotlight.
I mean, just looking at this deal, it's
really become a rivalry for or a proxy
for the China US rivalry and battle for
influence in Latin America. And these
two ports have emerged as a real flash
point for that as they battle for
influence in the Panama Canal in
particular. Um now the US cheered that
Panama court's decision last month.
China wasn't very happy. But take into
consideration all of this is happening
now against this backdrop especially
today um of Trump's latest moves on
trade of these escalating um tensions
over trade over geopolitics. So, this is
something we're going to be watching a
lot more closely than we might have
watched it in years past and a lot more
closely than you might watch a similar
kind of deal. It's going to be very
interesting.
Okay, Karen, thank you so much. Karen
Lee, our global business editor there,
right, let's have a look at markets and
where we are. Um, so we're reopening of
course first uh trading session here of
the horse. You have the energy complex
mirroring what we're seeing in the
commodity complex as far as the catchup
is concerned. And apart from that, other
sectors that are moving, IT and staples
going the opposite way. We're down about
half of 1%. So bucking the overall trend
as far as the the staples are concerned.
>> Yeah, I think you know some of the
numbers that we got in terms of lunar
new year in terms of the consumption
space I think did underwhelm in some
ways. Uh we certainly saw that yesterday
in the HR market. So uh we'll continue
to see and get more of course how the
lunar year shaped up when it comes to
the consumption side of things. More
data could be coming up in the next few
days or so. Uh but yeah, if you're
talking about flying, I mean there's
always that long debate. Do I fly sing
air? Do I fly cafe a? Well, JP Morgan
says why not both, right? Because both
upgraded to overweight from neutral
here. And they're really talking about
how that they have tight industry
industry supply, strong traffic growth
in the region, and the ability to really
flexibly redeploy capacity to the most
attractive markets. So, they're saying
that it's a structural improvement in
terms of earnings visibility for both.
For both right now, Kathy Pacific
though, that's an upgrade. I think a
four 40% or so in terms of the price
target
>> to be completely honest and this is a
personal view when you put airlines in
upgrade in one sentence the stock is not
what first comes to mind and nor is that
my preference right
>> there is a specific type of upgrade that
I'm waiting for the airlines every time
I come up with my
ton ticket
>> and I I'm hoping for that red beep
>> how how r how often do you get that red
beep
>> um as often uh certain economies beat
expectations as far as growth is
concerned. So it's mostly median if not
uh disappointing to the downside. But
one one can hope, right?
>> I never get my hopes up on that that
upgrade. It's just Yeah. Yeah. Just
don't get your hopes up. Um we're taking
a look when it comes to some of these
Japanese military stocks as well. So
this was a bit of a surprise, right?
what we heard from uh Moffcom from China
just the last couple minutes of adding
20 Japanese firms to this export ban
list the 20 of them among them are more
military sort of you know industries and
the likes so the likes of Mitsubishi
heavy there we saw reversing some of the
initial gains here we're down close to
3% this is Bloomberg
11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
are going on a break in just a moment
and yeah, looks to be a pretty decent
day in Tokyo here today. Nikki225 is up
3/4 of 1%. Uh interesting to note
though, we talked about some of those
military firms and the like in Japan
that have been added into this export uh
ban uh in China. Those have all have
seen some really massive reversals there
in the last couple minutes or so. So,
that is one to watch here today.
>> Yeah. Uh we'll we'll keep an eye on
that. We are on the break but yeah we
were it it certainly doesn't look like
anything you see on your screens on a
benchmark on a benchmark level right as
far as the AI trade and AI scare trade
specifically in the US is concerned
whether or not you're looking at some
warnings coming through uh out of
anthropic we'll get to that in a moment
or this u thought piece uh that were
released over the weekend we talked to
the co-author by the way earlier on if
you're curious that's on TV go you can
scroll back to that or um some warnings
coming out of black swans uh the black
swan author uh it's showing up in the
form of soft bank that's what I want to
get to here down about 5% on there uh
going into the break there apart from
that Asia is actually doing quite uh
decently uh and well so we're up about
51% S&P futures I should also note are
bouncing off following the cash market
session overnight um so apart from a
handful of weak spots consumer
discretionary financials actually are
standing
uh out to the downside 1.3 on consumer
services 2% and I imagine that's 10
cents when they get into that. That's my
bet. I haven't even looked at it, but
that's I'll correct myself if I'm wrong.
Apart from that, we're doing quite well
as far as the the region is concerned.
>> Yeah, we're checking shares of Miniax uh
the like here and really we have seen
this massive rally around sort of the
peer plays in China. We saw a bit of a
drop there yesterday. They seem to be
recovering here today. In fact, uh Minia
that is up some 7%. Drupal also is up
double digits here right now. Uh there
has been of course that story when it
came to Anthropic, right? And these
allegations of copycat behavior. Uh
let's bring in our Asia Tech
correspondent Annabelle Jewelers to
really kind of flesh out the details for
us on what Anthropic is saying now.
>> Yeah. So they're they're talking about
distillation techniques which isn't the
first time we've actually heard about
this because this accusation of uh
Chinese AI companies using distillation
techniques was also levied by OpenAI
against DeepS just a few weeks back. But
the latest allegation here is that uh
Anthropic is saying not just Deep Seek
but also Miniaax and Moonshot which uh
these are three startup ones of course
of varying
varying uh
interest. No, I was going to say levels
of awareness essentially because Miniax
listed in Hong Kong early this year.
Moonshot is still held privately.
Deepseek of course is really well known
globally. But these three companies use
distillation techniques to essentially
copy anthropics models. And so
distillation techniques is is about
having a small compact so-called student
model and then you want it to be able to
mimic the behaviors and the knowledge
and the patterns of of a more advanced
teacher model. And and so essentially
they're saying that they use a web of
different accounts to do this and
generated more than 16 million exchanges
with the clawed models in order for that
to happen. So it is a big concern. As I
said, OpenAI was saying the same thing
about DeepSeek and they've also been
talking about this in Washington because
the AI's David Saxs has also said he's
concerned about the risk of this
happening.
>> Uh I want to ask you about IBM in a
moment, but have we been able to distill
a response from these Chinese?
>> No, no response from uh no response from
from the Chinese AI companies, which you
might expect. I mean I think it'll be
interesting to see earnings for Miniax
are confirmed or rather sorry
tentatively scheduled. So we'll see if
they come up in the next say even this
week next week and then as well uh ZAI
has their earnings on the docket but
they haven't actually face these levels
of accusations either. Just will be
interesting to see if it does of course
get asked as an analyst question for
instance or during those earnings calls.
It's a it's a big point of focus I think
uh the technologies and the
methodologies that they're using. Uh,
what does IBM have to do with all of
this? Cobalt and we're back to 1959. I
believe
>> 1959 is when Cobalt the programming
language was introduced, which is is
pretty crazy. And I think some people
might think that it's a legacy system.
It's not that integral. Actually, it is.
If you if you go on to IBM's website,
they they have a post where they sort of
lay out how important it is. And I was
just taking a look. So, it's it's the
foundation for more than 40% of all
online banking systems. 40%. It supports
80% of in-person credit card
transactions
>> and it handles 95% of all ATM
transactions. So, it's it's it's a
system that's powering around 3 billion
US dollars of commerce each day. It's
used across airlines, governments,
finance. Many many different sectors are
relying on this computer programming
language. The issue though, as you say
in 1959, is that it's it's it's an older
system. there's not a lot of people that
can maintain it. Uh it takes a long time
to do so. You know, legacy, cumbersome,
and so Anthropic is saying that their
clawed code tool can essentially uh
replace the work of those computer
programming engineers uh and and do it
in really short order. And so that is
the risk for IBM directly, especially
because they're making still a lot of
revenue off their mainframe business
that does rely on cobalt.
>> There it is. Okay, Bill, thank you so
much. Annabelle jewelers as you can see
we're still up 71% uh but we're down
about 24 of course from the peak there
on shares of the share price of IBM.
Okay. Uh this goes into this this report
which caused a lot of disruptions
obviously overnight on the scare trade.
So the co-author of that report in fact
which came out I believe on Sunday uh on
the weekend certainly helped fuel this
latest scare trade and this move down uh
says investors are now moving from an
everyone wins scenario to picking real
winners and losers.
>> Yeah. Lotus CIO Alap Sha told us that AI
agents could soon spark a rapid economic
upheaval, threatening to wipe out white
collar jobs far quicker than anyone
expects.
>> The timeline we we're seeking to just
find a time period that is far enough
away that ultimately we can start try
start driving a conversation on what
needs to be done to avoid such a
timeline. uh but near enough that you
know would would kind of shake people a
little bit and and ultimately we do
think it's going to take a while for
this to diffuse through the entire
economy but it's more a question of you
know what happens at the leading edge I
think especially in the US the the job
market is just very weak for white
collar jobs already and so the thinking
and the the ultimate fear is that it's
not going to take that much to sort of
push things over uh when we haven't
really generated any white collar jobs
in the US over the last 3 years uh when
you take out things like healthcare and
and education that are primarily driven
by government spending. And so that's
kind of the the underlying thesis here
is that there's going to be significant
replacement of jobs with AI,
specifically AI agents, those things
only really came into fruition in the
last few months. And so as it comes
through and and shows up in the
productivity of uh of different
corporations, it that's when things are
are going to get a little uh little more
interesting and where we got to pay real
attention
>> a lot. David here. Were you surprised by
the by the market reaction?
>> Yeah, I was. I thought there was going
to be a small reaction. Uh it was
definitely larger than than we expected.
Uh but I think it's not that surprising
when you take a step back and consider
kind of where the markets are in the US.
Uh you know, the AI trade has been going
on for 3 and 1/2 years. It's been more
or less a straight line up and
essentially like everyone is max long
today. And so there really aren't many
incremental buyers left. And so it on
the one hand, you know, spooks people
when when you do consider what is
negative about this, but I think
specifically the market right now is
trying to digest this idea that AI has
gotten a lot more powerful in the last 6
months. And it's going to start changing
not you know it's not just going to crew
to the benefit of uh you know every
corporation and you know every
foundation lab and every semiconductor
company but instead it's starting to
disperse and figure out hey who are the
winners going to be and who are the
losers going to be and so you know
software is the best example the markets
have been selling software for almost a
year now on the AI threat. uh but they
really accelerated in the last few weeks
and this is you know the problem with
this if you're long software is there's
nothing to actually disprove the thesis
because the thesis is a few years out uh
it's not today but you you have not much
to stand on because ultimately that
thesis is going to get stronger as AI
itself gets stronger and so we just are
entering a really kind of highly
volatile time in the markets because the
timelines are are short but they're you
know the things are in fact happening
now
>> yeah I was about to say 2028 eight is
closer than
you know the most recent presidential
elections right let alone the pandemic
which in my mind seems still very very
fresh a lot I just would have been doing
my duty if I didn't ask you this the is
this were you or anyone at the research
firm short uh the these names going into
this going into this was this a a short
seller report guised beautifully uh in
the form of a beautiful fiction
>> we are constantly sort of you know
turning our book and and we certainly
had shorts in some of these businesses.
We generally have a set of shorts out
against businesses that we think are
going to be disrupted by AI. And on the
other side of that, we own a lot of
semiconductors uh that we think are
going to benefit. Uh but ultimately, we
just wanted to get this story out to the
market because the while while the risk
to individual stocks is certainly
meaningful, the the main story for us is
that the risk to the overall economy and
ultimately the consumer economy in a
world where, you know, we don't figure
out what to do if the jobs start going
faster than we think. I'm I'm just
wondering what we're seeing the market
reaction. It it we're not quite seeing
that here in Asia particularly when it
comes to China itself. In fact, some of
these pure plays in in China are
actually outperforming and and has been
a dominant theme uh here in in in China.
Is there a sense I mean China's making
cheaper AI models. Um is there a sense
that they can actually in some ways
overthrow some of these offerings the
likes of anthropic and what they're what
they're doing now at least outside the
US? I think there's two really
interesting observations with with
what's going on in China right now. I
think a clearly uh these uh these
foundation lab companies that have
recently listed are really zooming. It's
not surprising to me. Uh they're really
the only way in the whole world that you
can get exposure to foundational lab
companies. Uh because none of them are
public in the US except unless you want
to buy Google when you're buying a bunch
of other things too. Uh and so clearly
there isn't that much supply. Uh
everyone in Asia, but I think you know
folks all over the world are rushing to
buy these stocks in Hong Kong. And so
it's not surprising to me that they are
outperforming and other parts of the AI
complex are outperforming. Uh the other
thing that I find really interesting
about China and maybe that reflects in
kind of what you're seeing in a very
muted response today is there there
might be a good analog here for what
happens over the next two years in the
US to some extent what has happened over
the last few years in China where uh as
technology not you know so AI but other
things as well especially automation
have uh have really rolled through the
economy in a big way you know jobs
aren't being produced at the same level
uh you can the average corporate can do
a lot more with less humans uh and
they're able to you know ultimately not
hire and it leads to sort of a pretty
weak consumer economy that kind of can
drag the entire economy down. Uh so I
think there is probably some interesting
analog there as well. And I so I think
you know there's just a lot less uh
expectation sort of embedded in sort of
China's uh growth from a from a consumer
perspective right now. And so thus you
know this if it gets a little bit worse
shouldn't matter in the same way that
you know there's quite a bit embedded in
in kind of the US.
That was the Lotus CIO Alap Sha speaking
to us about the report that he
co-authored actually for Catrini uh
research that's feel this latest AI
scare in these markets.
>> I think it's worth a read this post,
right? It it's quite long.
>> You know, it it might be the most
extreme scenario, but I think it does
leave investors with with a bit of a I
guess message that you know there are
going to be some tail risks around this
whole AI discussion, right? And I think
they it's it reads like a novel in some
ways and really kind of they even use
Bloomberg articles from 2027. They say
the future articles we might write uh
when it comes to the earnings of some of
these sectors, you know, when it comes
to like, you know, the Door Dashes, the
Ubers and the like. Uh but I love this
one line. We we have overestimated the
value of human relationships. Turns out
that a lot of people call relationships
was simply friction with a friendly
face. That you know, people thought, you
know, at least we still need people to
manage the AI and the like. And he's
saying, "No, there's going to be agents
out there eventually that's going to
look at these tedious jobs and not look
too tedious."
>> Yeah.
>> Pretty dark. Pretty dark.
>> It's pretty dark. It's almost like a a
dystopian. Not too far in the future,
right? 2028. And he said that was a date
that deliberately they picked not so
much to scare people like it's coming,
but also not too far away that it's far
enough that we don't be worried about
it. The policy implications. I think
he's getting here the governments need
to
>> look at how this economic imbalance is
going address the coming economic
imbalance.
>> So basically he says you know in terms
of to how to break this negative
feedback loop to markets to to the
economy is that you have to start taxing
uh AI here to help really offset the
impact when it comes to job losses. So
um he he offers maybe there is some
signs of avoiding this sort of scenario
uh that they've laid out quite quite
interestingly. But yes, definitely worth
a read. Uh when it comes to what do they
call it? The the global intelligence
crisis.
>> Yeah.
>> Of 2028. Um you know, just to counter
that, right? I mean, there are a lot of
questions of whether this market
reaction was a bit exaggerated, right?
>> Uh we heard from JP Morgan CEO JB
Diamond as well, and he says, you know,
when it comes to fears about AI sweeping
through markets here, right now could be
a bit overblown, he says, and that the
bank would use the technology to its
advantage. He spoke during its JP Morgan
investment day, investor day.
In my view, we will be a winner. But,
you know, at the end of the day, if you
look at 100 areas, we'll be a winner in
75 and maybe a loser in 25. We've always
had the strategy to use technology to do
a better job for our customers. And we
we're quite good at it.
Meanwhile, Diamond says he is starting
to see parallels to the era I can't
imagine this is almost 20 years ago.
before the 2008
uh GFC that's a global financial crisis
when a rush uh to make loans ended as we
know now disastrously Diamond was
responding to a question about fierce
competition uh in the financial
industry.
>> Unfortunately, we did see this in '05
and ' 06 and ' 07 almost the same thing.
The rising tide lifting all boats,
everyone was making a lot of money. I
don't know how long it's going to be
great for everybody. I see a couple of
people doing some dumb things. You know,
they're just doing dumb things to create
NI or or say they're, you know, winning
in the Marcus business, something like
that.
Right. Uh in case you missed it, there's
quite steep losses going into the
Japanese lunch break here across some of
these big Japanese names. Industrial
giants, Mitsubishi, Kawasaki, heavy in
heavy their industry are falling. You
have China's commerce ministry about
what time is it about 30 or so minutes
back naming them among the 20 firms in
Japan on its control list for dual use
items. Minlow, our China correspondent,
has the details for us from this
statement from the Ministry of Commerce.
Yeah, this is quite a swift response
from China's commerce ministry coming
soon, couple of days after Takai made
her first post-election speech on Friday
where she talked about China's coercion
and talked about wanting to revise or
overhaul Japan's uh defense strategy,
strengthening its supply chain,
strengthening defense uh companies and
even, you know, revisiting the rules
that restrict the export of military
items. And I think China sees this as
quite a departure from its pacifist
constitution. And of course the root
cause of it was, you know, started many
months ago when Takishi made that
comment about Taiwan that was really
left to fester as she didn't retract her
comments, which was something that China
has been pushing for. So now China is
punishing Japan and ramping up tensions
even further with this latest list of
export control, placing about 20
companies. You can see some of those
companies on the screen there. And most
of these companies are military related.
They are uh ship makers, jet builders,
engine makers. Um and yes, the latest uh
retaliation between the two sides.
>> Yeah. Uh we'll see how Japan responds,
but certainly this one came out of
nowhere in some ways for us as well. All
right, Mim, thank you. Our China
correspondent Mim Lo there with the
latest on uh this export ban. Um we're
talking a little bit more about Iran now
here. President Trump has pushed back on
reports that the Pentagon is concerned
that extended military campaign against
Iran could prove difficult. Now, he
rebuted earlier reporting, including by
the Wall Street Journal, that suggested
that Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Dan
Kaine have been underscoring the risks
of striking Iran.
>> Um, the L of Delval is with us, our
national security reporter to talk us
through this and we markets have been
trying to figure this one out. What
milit potential military action is
likely on the table here? What has
President Trump been saying specifically
about that?
>> Hi. Yes, thank you for having me. As you
said, there's reports that the Pentagon
has expressed concerns over the effects
that could come from strikes on Iran,
but the president has denied the claims
and continues to voice his optimism over
what Stripes could achieve and doubling
down on what chairman chief of staff Dan
Kaine said. and
um sorry and that he said that the US
could easily win against Iran. But
regardless of what chairman chiefs of
staff said even though Trump Trump is
convinced that he can win and he's
really ready for this attack on Monday
the state evacuated non-essential
personnel from their embassy in Beirut
which could signal that there's
something going on in the region. state
didn't specifically mention Iran as the
reason for the evacuation, but they said
that they analyzed what was going on in
the area and that it seemed prudent to
tell their staff to leave. So, that
sends some signals. And around Iran,
we're seeing that what's probably the
largest US military buildup in the
Middle East since the 2003 invasion of
Iraq, including two aircraft carriers,
fighter jets, and refueling tankers. So,
we don't know the exact odds. Trump
hasn't said, you know, we're striking
tomorrow. He actually gave her on 10 to
15 days to come up with a deal. But
these timelines are sometimes fuzzy and
he's ready to go at any moment really.
>> Okay. And so how likely are these
strikes that Magdalena and and what is
the latest when it comes to where
negotiations between US and Iran?
>> Well, negotiations are still very much
ongoing with the latest round scheduled
for this Thursday in Geneva. Jared
Kushner and Steve Wickoff are planning
to attend and I mean they're Trump's
most trusted envoys on these issues. So
they might write reach a deal but the
objective of these talks is also a bit
fuzzy and different officials have
different goals and depending on what
goals they ultimately pick is whether or
not we'll have strikes. So if they
decide that they just want a nuclear
deal, which is something Trump has said
and other US officials have said, then
the Iranians might be willing to
negotiate something like that and we
might see a deal on the table and then
strikes become less likely. But if they
decide to push a little bit more, which
is something Marco Rubio is very adamant
on, in which the president has on
occasion been insistent on, but on
occasion he's backed off, they would
want a deal that um deals with Iran's
missile program, suppression of
protests, and limiting support for proxy
militant groups across the Middle East,
such as the Houthis and Hezbollah. These
issues for the Iranian regime are
existential. Like they define who they
are. They protect their sovereignty. So
if the US tries to touch them, they
might draw some really hard red lines.
And if the US isn't willing to let them
go and really wants all these things to
go as they wish, then strikes might end
up being the only option.
>> Magdalena Dealia, thank you so much
there. Our national security reporter
joining us out of New York where it's
getting late and still very, very cold,
of course, given the weather outside. A
reminder for our of our new online
feature, the Bloomberg Video Hub. Uh so
subscribers can explore live streaming.
You have interviews, news, and all the
TV shows across Bloomberg television.
Check it out. bloomberg.com/videos,
right? Uh welcome back. We're looking at
some of these payment related stocks on
your screens and as you can see, we're
not doing too well. And again this is
down this is another uh derivative of
this AI scare trade that this goes down
completely the the value chain here. Um
but yes I mean so far this is across the
region. So everything from Bay Current
of course which is listed in Tokyo. You
have a couple of names in Korea there on
your screens. Ki is is is a Hong Kong
listing. So it's it's not it's agnostic
of where these stocks are listed I think
is the point I'm making here.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And I think a lot who we had
on the show, you know, mentioned in
terms of, you know, where is best to
kind of park your money then if if in
fact this sort of disruption is going to
continue on for the next few years or
so. I mean, and he said it's the
semiconductors, it's the data centers
>> that they say could have a lot of upside
from here. So certainly those are still
the sectors that are maybe uh safer in
this whole sort of AI disruption wave.
Uh in terms of China tech, we're
watching very closely of course some of
these names as well. uh when it comes to
Tencent, Alibaba, I mean some of the
internet giants have really kind of
they've gained a little bit this year,
but really it's been out overshadowed by
really what has been these national
champions of AI, right? The Jupus, the
the Minia Maxes of the likes here, but
really overall AS Tech is lower by about
2 and a half%.
>> Uh commodities also coming back online.
I think you really have a standout as it
pertains to energy and as you can see on
your screens, energy and some of the big
mining stocks there are doing very very
well. Before we go, a quick glance at
the movies. China film stocks slumping.
You have soft holiday box office sales.
And yeah, that's it from us here on the
China show. We have plenty more ahead
here on Bloomberg Television. Insight
with Asuna Amen is coming up next.